# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

models/property.rb

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

4, 13, 22, 31, 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

This id is generated by the DB and pulled from there

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

models/property.rb line 32 - auto generated by psql and saved as part of the save method.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

As ids are not assigned by the user this is put in place to allow the user to enter the other data and pull and ID back from the auto generate database line

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

some will delete the instance of the class itself while others will delete all instances of the class

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

This returns an array and can be accessed by adding [0]['id'] to allow us to pull the ID from the first/only object in the array

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

This is to guard against malicious injections of scripts which could destroy/delete the database

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

These take in a single user provided argument

Q11. What are their return values?

If the property is found it will return a new instance of the Property class otherwise if nothing is found it will return 'nil'
